[Music]
now this next passage here is a
breathtaking example of all the way back
in 1997 in the fabric of reality in this
chapter eight the significance of Life
of David Deutsch reaching the
conclusions and explaining to us the
content of the beginning of infinity a
decade and a half later and even today
is still breathtaking in the way that it
reads in the year 2022 what does he say
about the significance of life in
particular the significance of people
and in particular the significance of
knowledge explanatory English he says it
right here quote the color of the sun 10
billion years hence depends on gravity
and radiation pressure on convection and
nucleosynthesis it does not depend at
all on the geology of Venus the
chemistry of Jupiter or the pattern of
craters on the moon but it does depend
on what happens to intelligent life on
the planet Earth it depends on politics
and economics and the outcomes of Wars
it depends on what people do what
decisions they make what problems they
solve what values they adopt and on how
they behave towards their children end
quote that remarkable passage
encapsulates the significance of people
that we cannot predict the evolution of
the sun scientifically speaking if we
ignore the existence of life on Earth we
don't know what people will do billions
of years hence what choices they will
make those depend upon knowledge created
now and in the future
something that we cannot predict the
evolution of we cannot predict the
creation of knowledge by simple
definition of what the word creation
means because it is a genuine Act of
Creation we are creating knowledge
bringing something into existence that
didn't exist before at all and cannot be
predicted by anything we have now by any
process of so-called Bayesian inference
generation because our explanatory
theories of the future will be crafted
around problems yet to be encountered
and those will determine the way in
which society's civilizations and all of
humanity evolves here on planet Earth
and that will determine what we decide
to do about the Sun and eventually the
rest of the cosmos
foreign
[Music]